Today we'll explore Algebraic operation.
Before we begin, there are a few points we need to keep in mind.
First, we'll group similar terms together. That is, the terms containing same variables or no variables (that is constant) has to be grouped together.
Then we'll carry out arithmetic operation among these groups.
For example in this algebraic expression, "2x^2 y" and "5x^2 y" are similar. "3x y" and "2x y" are similar. And the constant terms, "1" and "4" are similar.
Lets look at a few examples.

Lets add 2x + 5 and 3.
Here 5 and 3 are constants, so we'll group them together and add them to get 8.

Next, 
We'll add 2x + 5 and 3x + 2.
Please note that we cannot add 3 and 5x (the two middle terms) to get 8x because 5 has to be multiplied with x first. Multiplication has a greater priority over addition.
This was discussed in BODMAS rule in the previous video.
We'll group 2x and 3x together and 5 and 2 together, then add these among themselves.
Now, using distributive property we can write 2x + 3x as x multiplied by (2+3).
We'll compute all the arithmetic operations and write the final expression as 5x + 7.

Next,
We'll multiply 3 with 2x + 5.
As mentioned in my previous video, in algebra we'll avoid multiplication sign and if necessary use the dot notation as shown.
Now, using distributive property we'll distribute 3 to 2x and 5.
Next, we'll perform the arithmetic operations.
Please note, that here we can multiply the numeric terms (like 3 and 2) and leave out the variables, this won't affect the final answer.

What if we multiplied 3x with 2x + 5.
We'll use distributive property and write it as 3x times 2x and 3x times 5.
We'll club the variables together and numbers together.
Finally we get 6x^2 + 15x.

Division is similar to multiplication.
Next we'll perform a little more complicated operation using division.
We'll divide 2x^2 y + 4x y by 2x.
Again using the distributive property we can write it like this.
From the first term we'll strike off one x from the numerator and divide 2 by 2.
From the second term we'll strike off the only x term and divide 4 by 2.
Thus, we get x y + 2y.

Now for the last problem we have this expression and will simplify as much as possible.
First we'll simplify the numerator by clubbing the terms with same variables.
So sum of these two terms will become 12x^2 y and rest of the terms will remain as it was.
Now using distributive property we obtain this expression.
Next, we'll cancel out all the terms common to numerator and denominator.
We'll get 4x + 2 + y + 6 by x y as our final expression.